README

CS 111 Operating Systems Principles, Winter 2016
Cristen Anderson <904400797>

Lab 1

This submission is for lab 1C, which is the final part of lab 1. 
All the options specified will work.

It can be built using make, and run using ./simpsh 

The --profile option will print CPU time and user time in microseconds
for each command option, except the file flags which it combines.
Profile does not print anything for abort and pause, as there is no viable
way to check resource usage for these commands. For the wait command, profile
prints the CPU and user time for the wait command combined with that of
all the child processes waited on.

In my implementation of profile, I made a tradeoff for performance rather than 
robustness in the way it works with fileflags. Rather than polling getrusage
for every file flag, I only polled it at the first one, and then got the 
difference between that and another poll at the end of opening the file. 
This means that if the input is buggy, and there is a fileflag that doesn't
end in opening a file, its rusage will be combined with the fileflag. 
For example, ./simpsh --profile ... --append --command ... will combine
the resource usage for append and command in its output.

For our implementation of wait, --wait must be the last option specified because
it will close all of the pipes, to solve the infinite waiting problem.
This is not ideal, but the alternative of requiring the user to close the
correct file descriptors before calling wait is also not ideal. 

We saved the pipe file descriptors in a separate array so that the we could
close the unused end of the pipe when a child process was forked, but this
version did not work so we closed all file descriptors in the child process instead.

Our testing is in test.sh, which can be invoked using "make check".

We implemented the Makefile such that the user can use "make", "make check",
"make clean", "make dist" as specified in the spec. There are currently
no tests run for "make dist". 
